Those Who Ride Trains
	Before sundown, the alchemist was already drunk. “I was the bandit,” he said. “I derailed the train to Viam Kae, do you remember? The one that killed fourteen?” 
	“Yes, I remember,” the barkeep said. He was sitting on a stool, meditating over the rainy night.
	“I derailed it,” the alchemist said. “It was me.”
	“Yes, alright.”
	“I watched it go down,” the alchemist said. “It was metal plates crashing and everything shrieking. The cars went down one by one. Like dominoes,” he said. “Give me a refill.”
	The barkeep selected a pitcher and poured a blue grease into his glass. The alchemist drank, pacified. He was dizzy, and speaking of his deed made him feel better, proud almost. He did not feel guilty—that was the thing. An action of that magnitude cannot be contained by a feeling, and so it is the action itself that takes its place, the action itself that stalks you, with a life of its own. It watches you sleep.


	By midnight only two more had come, a permanently blushing, acne-faced girl whose presence was the only thing that gave the bar any substance, and another girl who came with her. “We have replaced one Tyrant with another,” the alchemist was saying. The red faced girl smiled at him kindly. He assumed she was interested. “Do you know how many Melyna has exiled from Viam Kae? Do you know?”
	“No,” she said.
	He pointed into the wet darkness. “Look,” he said. “Go and look. Every morning there are more on the roads. I tell you, one Tyrant has overthrown another. Drinkmaster!”
	The barkeep appeared.
	“Pour me another. A wine. I feel for a Renot but any black will do.”
	“Of course.”
	“And pour one for these two. One each. A red—“ he turned to them—“do you drink red?”
	The girl who talked, with the acne, grinned painfully and looked at her companion, who copied her expression. She shrugged. “Occasionally?” she said.
	“Two reds,” the alchemist said.
The barkeep moved quickly, with a way of reappearing elsewhere, which unsettled the alchemist. Soon there were three shiny glasses on the counter. The alchemist sniffed his and drank. “Do you know the Viam Kae library?”
	She nodded. “We’ve gone there before for research.”
	“You did not find anything, did you? No—I can tell you did not. Do you know why?”
	“It was a pleasant—”
	“I will tell you why,” the alchemist said. “It is unorganized. They call it the catacomb of books. It is a maze. It spirals deeper and deeper into the earth. One may get lost in it and die there. It is a cave.”
	“I can see how one might think that.”
	“Do you know why it is not organized? Because there is nobody in charge of it, and nobody has offered, except, as far as I am aware, myself. But now we have a Tyrant who is exiling people from Viam Kae.”
	“It is a tragedy.”
	“Who is your friend?” the alchemist said, leaning sideways to look past her. Her friend sat with her hands in her lap, her head angled down so that her dark hair veiled her peripherals. She had not spoken a word.
	The talker nudged her friend in the elbow. She looked up—her eyes beneath the dark hair were green—and smiled thinly. “Olivia,” she said.
	The alchemist drained his glass. “You are beautiful,” he said. She couldn’t stop smiling and her eyes were lowered. It was like a blush but there was no red in her cheeks. “Why is it that the beautiful ones are always shy?” the alchemist said. “Tell me, have you been to the library at Viam Kae?”
	The talker smiled at him pointedly. “We both did research there,” she said.
	“Oh, but I want to know if she has been there personally.”
	Olivia’s smile was gone and she was looking at the floor.
	“I’m sorry,” the talker said. “It’s been great talking to you. We have to go study.” She got up and Olivia followed her and they stepped out beneath the awning onto the glistening walkway.
	The alchemist watched them go, dazed. When they were gone he turned to the barkeep. “Do you see that?” he said. “Do you see how rude she is?”
	“You are bad for my business,” the barkeep said.
	“Do you want me to leave then? Is that it? Do I pester you?”
	“Oh, no,” the barkeep said. “Don’t leave. Buy another drink.”
	“These first,” the alchemist said. The girls had left their wine untouched and he took one, drank it down, and took the other, waiting a bit to recover from the first, and drank it down. Then he blinked and slapped a silver coin onto the table.
	The barkeep shoveled ice with a handheld scooper, fine frosted cubes, and let them rattle into a glass. This was the alchemist’s favorite part. The barkeep drizzled alcohol over the ice, which looked like water, then took a pitcher and trickled in clear blue until it was two thirds full, and sprinkled in mint clovers. He swirled the drink to mix it.
	“On second thought,” the barkeep said, “would you mind wiping the counters for me? The drink would be free.”
	“How much is it?”
	“Seventy.”
	“Seventy? Are you selling melted gold?” He pushed the coin insistently.
	“It’s special,” the barkeep said. He sidled over to the end of the counter, sandaled feet thwacking, and snatched up a rag. “Well?”
	“Wipe your own counter.”
	The barkeep shrugged. Wordlessly, he worked his way down the counter with wide, practiced sweeps, leaving a wet sheen as he went. The alchemist fingered through his purse and set one, two, three more silver coins beside the first, then touched the cold glass to his lips. It was sharply minty, with a medicinal aftertaste. His fingers ached from the cold and he set it down. The mint leaves had dampened, sticking together; his drinking had disturbed the ice, and it was no longer picturesque. He looked down the walkway: it was dark, very late, and only a few other shops were still lit.
	“I do not understand why she was so rude,” the alchemist said. “Am I a pest?”
	“No,” the barkeep said.
	“But you said I was. You said I was bad for your business.”
	“It was because you made them leave. But now that you’re buying more drinks, it all evens out.”
	The alchemist squeezed a fistful of coins and spilled them onto the counter. “Another drink,” he said. “Hurry up. I want another.”


	“I would like to confide in you,” the alchemist said. He was dizzy and propping his head up with one palm.
	“Yes?”
	“Do you remember the Viam Kae train that went down last month?”
	“Yes,” the barkeep said. “You’ve already told me this.”
	“I turned the tracks into sand,” he said. “It was me.”
	“Really.”
	“Yes,” the alchemist said loudly. “Did I not just tell you? I—me—derailed that train.”
	“You understand I’ll have to tell somebody.”
	“No,” the alchemist said. “They will put me in jail.”
	“I have a moral obligation.”
	The alchemist watched the barkeep wipe a stool, gauging whether the man was joking. “But we are friends,” he said. “Why would you send your friend to jail? Are we not friends anymore?”
	“We were never friends.”
	The alchemist’s silky, feral eyes followed the barkeep. He breathed heavily. “I want another drink,” he said.
	The barkeep hummed something, snatched up a bottle of the blue grease and climbed up onto a stool to reach the alchemist’s glass. “No,” the alchemist said, waving it away. “The Falluvian.”
	“Are you sure?” The barkeep held up the blue bottle. “This is vintage.”
	“Falluvian!” the alchemist roared. He thunked his glass on the counter. “How much?”
	“One hundred twelve.”
	He shook coins out of his purse, which flopped when he put it back. He studied the barkeep, who mixed the drink, swirled it, and set it down.
	The alchemist held the glass in front of his eyes, looking into his own bloated reflection.
	“What are we,” he said. “If we are not friends, what are we?”
	“You are my customer.”
	“What is your name?”
	“Taln.”
	“Do you treat your customers well, Taln?”
	“I try.”
	“Then why are you trying to poison me?”
	Taln searched the alchemist’s eyes. There was no sound but the alchemist breathing.
	“I have a moral obligation,” Taln said.
	 “You hate me. Is that it?” The alchemist did not set the drink down.
	“No,” Taln said. “It is not that I hate you.”
	“I am a pest,” the alchemist said. “I am bad for your business.”
	“You are a criminal,” Taln said. “You wrecked a train.”
	The alchemist touched a fingertip to the top of the drink, barely breaking the surface tension. He lifted the finger and held the drop clinging to it in front of an eye. His eyes were clouded but they saw the drop down to its chemical composition.
	“Why are you trying to kill me?” he said. “If you only want me in jail, why are you trying to kill me?” He pressed his finger to a swath of table the barkeep had just wiped, smearing the drop in a moist arc. The barkeep was chewing but he had nothing in his mouth. “Why do you hate me?” the alchemist said. “Is it not enough to tell you the truth?”
	The barkeep broke away. He began polishing his counter again. “You are unneeded,” he said. He spoke conversationally, reasonably. “It is a dark age. If we are to bring down the Tyrants we have no need of you.”
	“You do not mean it,” the alchemist said.
	“We needed that train,” the barkeep said. “We needed the people on it. We do not need you.”
	The alchemist did not speak.
	“You know it is true, don’t you?” the barkeep said. The counter was very shiny. “You are unstable. We do not need you. Nobody needs you. Even you do not need yourself. Do you?” he said, without looking.
	“No.”
	“You see? It would all be so much easier if you drank.”
	The alchemist set the glass down.
	“Where will you go after this?” the barkeep said. He had finished polishing and was going back over it again. “You are homeless, like driftwood. I suppose a farmer might take you in for an extra field hand. But even he would not need you.”
	“You are like a snake,” the alchemist said.
	“I am a snake, aren’t I?” the barkeep said, putting the towel away. He turned. “Look at me. Don’t I look like a snake?”
	The alchemist jerked the glass to his lips and lapped.
	“Good,” he heard the barkeep say. It was all dark and the barkeep was standing over him, his face blurred. “Good,” Taln purred. “You see how easy it is?” He was standing in an underwater corridor, warm and close. He saw the black sigil of the Night Rats on the bare chests of several men as they chased him down a slick alley. He was trying to move forward in the corridor, but it was all in slow motion. He was straining against the chalky, stiff trapdoor hidden away beneath the Tyrant’s castle, swatting away the trickling dust of many untouched centuries, opening it to the grimy face of Melyna as she crawled upwards, blade first. Then the Night Rats, her Night Rats, had him and were beating his head against the stone. In the underwater corridor he tried to move forward. He lifted one foot, dragged it forward, and set it down. The water was tugging him up. He sat barefoot by the open trapdoor as Melyna padded silently off to the bedroom of the Tyrant. He sat curled in an alcove in the Viam Kae library, and when he sat up he was kneeling in the darkness, pouring a glowing liquid over a set of thick cold rails. He tried to take another step but he could not remain grounded. He gripped the floor by one toe. We had a deal, did we not? You would be Queen, would you not? I would be Librarian, would I not? He lost hold and floated up and up and up.


	The bar was the only shop lit along the walkway. Pools of water had collected on its awning and the barkeep stood with a long pole, poking the laden tarp so that the water splashed heavily down and smacked into the ground.
	“You have yourself a corpse, dear sir!” he said brightly. “Was it you who produced it?”
	“Yes, it was me,” the barkeep said.
	The watchman shook his head sadly. He had an open face. “Afraid I have to lock you up,” he said. He waved his torch, and after a while more watchmen came, and knelt beside the body, and the lanky one led the barkeep away.
	“May I be so rude as to inquire,” the watchman said, “about the nature of this crime?”
	It was a cool, wet night. They walked in sync with one another.
	“You may do so at your leisure,” the barkeep said. The watchman fell silent, confused, and the barkeep felt that he should explain, that he owed something to the lumbering fool. But at that moment he caught the rhythmic clicking, click-click-click-thump, click-click-click-thump, of a far-off train winding toward the station, the lights like narrowed pupils steadfast in the dark, and he was calm.



