Looking for Jimmy
	“Tommy, he’s your brother,” my mom says for the fifth time. “Either you go together or you don’t go at all.” She turns a page of the Scientific American she hasn’t read a word of, her way of saying this conversation is over.
	“Mom, he’s never gone to a party in his life. How am I supposed to—”
	“I’m sorry?” she says. Her eyes widen at me. “I said what I meant.”
	I roll my eyes, drag myself exaggeratedly to the stairs. Outside, dad chugs by on his John Deere, looking very self-satisfied with the lawn vaporizing around his head and his earbud wires bouncing in his lap. I hear mom turn another page.
	Upstairs is one hallway, perpetually dim because the only windows are in the rooms and the doors of the rooms are never open. Jimmy’s bedroom sulks at the far end. I can hear the steady, oily clack of keys, tucked beneath ambient lawn-mowing.
	“Jimmy?”
	He starts a machine-gun frenzy of clicks, then presses some keys in rapid succession.
	“Jimmy!”
	“What do you want?”
	“Can you go to homecoming?”
	He presses more keys. From out here they sound like small rocks clattering against asphalt.
	“Jimmy!”
	“What!”
	“Mom won’t let me go to homecoming unless—” but he isn’t listening. The door’s locked, so I stand and wait. By a gradual swing in volume, I can tell the John Deere has reached the end of a row and is turning around. I go back downstairs.
	“So?” mom says.
	“What?”
	“Did he say yes?”
	“Mom,” I tell her. She looks up from her magazine, expectant.
	“Hmm?” she says.
	My mom is a pretender. She’ll make you say it if you really mean it.
	“I’m the only one who isn’t going.”
	“No you’re not,” mom says. “You have Jimmy.”


	Jimmy hasn’t come out of his room in two years. I’m not sure when exactly it started, except that, somewhere between seventh and eighth grade, he started getting homeschooled, and after that I didn’t see him much. Dad works part time at the restaurant, anyway, so he’s got nothing better to do than sit around and tell Jimmy to read his Precalculus textbook. Sometimes I’ll wake up at two or three in the morning and hear them arguing, low whip-lash voices that I always think are artifacts of a bad dream. He’s gotten into this game called WorldVerse that was a huge fad around school last year, which Dad thinks is the artwork of Satan. “What’s wrong with real life?” he says to Jimmy when he’s angry, angrier beyond even shouting. His eyes go googly and he jabs his finger at Jimmy’s computer like he’s about to smash it. “What’s wrong with it? Huh? Huh?” But try as he might, he can’t get Jimmy off it. He’s more than just addicted. The game is his life.
	Dad keeps my computer in a spidery nook under the basement stairs, where there’s no door to hide behind. I log on and Google, “worldverse.” A great, blocky, silver DOWNLOAD button fills half the screen. I click.

WorldVerse
	Select Character
	New Character
	Options

I pick the default avatar that appears and under NAME I write, “Tom.”

BACKSTORY:
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
	OK
	Skip

Alert! Are you sure you want to skip? Role playing is much easier with a Backstory!
	Back
	Skip Anyway

	I lean back in the chair, stretching until my spin crackles. Chunk by chunk, trees, sky, grass, water load on the screen. My character stands in a forest. Poorly rendered birds bob along the treetops.
	I’ve missed homecoming before, and I’m not doing it again. If Jimmy won’t talk to me in real life, there’s only one place where he can’t ignore me.


	Tom finds himself amidst ruins. White boulders sit between trees, their carved faces worn to nothing, smothered in moss. Crusty axe heads lay heaped in piles like rocks. A mill, deteriorated to its rusted skeleton, still watches over a stream that must have dried centuries ago.
	He picks a direction and moves. Dusk deepens to dark. Things scamper in the trees but when he pauses they go silent.	
Benneth A’lith: Hey you.
He wheels about. Darkness all around.
Benneth A’lith: Don’t bother looking. Just lay down 500 gold and I won’t hurt you.
Tom: who are you?
Benneth A’lith: Someone who could kill you in a heartbeat.
Tom: i don’t have any money…
Benneth A’lith: No money? What’s an urchin like you doing out here?
	Tom: im looking for someone
Benneth A’lith: Heh. Alright.
A sword clatters before Tom’s feet.
Benneth A’lith: Take it.
Benneth A’lith: And when I find you next, you better have something for me to steal.


	The Benneth guy has a bright white nametag floating over his head that reads, BENNETH. I can see it even through trees and darkness, and as he leaves, I follow it, stopping when he does. The squarish moon is rising and in the ghostly light I can see the caped, hooded silhouette of his character.
	From Benneth: ((Hey meta))
	Tom: ?
	From Benneth: ((Your metagaming))
	Tom: what
	From Benneth: ((Are you new or something))
	Tom: yeah
	From Benneth: ((Use parenthesis for ooc))
	Tom: what’s ooc
	From Benneth: ((Out of character))
	From Benneth: ((Just pm me))
	From Benneth: ((Use /pm Benneth A’lith))
	To Benneth: ((what’s metagaming))
	From Benneth: ((your char can’t see my nametag))
	From Benneth: ((its where you use real life info in game))
	To Benneth: ((oh srry))
	From Benneth: ((Np))
	To Benneth: ((im looking for my brother))
	From Benneth: ((your brother?))
	From Benneth: ((Like irl?))
	To Benneth: ((yeah))
	From Benneth: ((oh wow lol))
	To Benneth: ((do you know where i can find him))
	From Benneth: ((uh what’s his name?))
	To Benneth: ((jimmy))
	From Benneth: ((in game?))
	To Benneth: ((no))
	To Benneth: ((idk what his name is))
	From Benneth: ((Umm))
	From Benneth: ((Have you searched him on the website))
	To Benneth: ((No))
	From Benneth: ((Try it))
	From Benneth: ((You can search w/ email))
	To Benneth: ((ok thnx))
	From Benneth: ((Np))
	From Benneth: ((Cya))
	To Benneth: ((cya))
	Benneth A’lith: Scat, urchin!
	Benneth A’lith cast Warp! He disappears in a cloud of smoke!


	I open up the website. Sure enough, there’s a “search members” bar. I type in his email.
	Talkian Greenfist: Lv. 47
	Bio: Talkian’s parents died in a Shaethen raid when he was 3. Since then he has been traveling the land, searching for the secrets of magic so that one day he can have his revenge.
	I tab over to Facebook. Between some Snickers ad and a BuzzFeed article for Celebrities: Then And Now!, there’s a picture of Daniel with his arms around a freckled, intense redhead who looks as if she’s making a special exception to smile for this photo. Daniel’s a pedantic guy I met at a camp last summer, and his homecoming seems to be a week earlier than mine, because his album is flooded with pics. I stare at the redhead for a bit, then open up WorldVerse.
#

	Before dawn Tom emerges from the woods, following a river that bends across the valley like an arm holding a cluster of huts tight. Across the valley, hills roll black against a blue sky swirling with stars. Tom treads across the river, emerging dripping and cold on the opposite shore.
	Tom: hello?
	 No one hears you. Type /s to shout.
	Tom (shout): hello?
	Harn: Watchye doin here?
	He turns. Behind him, a wiry man holds a notched bow to his chest, his clothes crusted with dirt.
	Tom: im looking for someone named Talkian Greenfist
	Tom: hes a magician
	Harn: I don’t know about no magician.
	Tom: hes fighting the Shaethen
	Harn: The Shaethen?
	Lenda: Harn? What’s that fuss about?
	Harn: Shut up!
	The door to a nearby cottage opens and a portly woman steps out, studies Tom over her multi-folded chin.
	Lenda: Oh.
	The man turns to her.
	Harn: What do you want?
	Lenda: Hello there.
	Tom: hi
	Harn: This ain’t your business.
	Tom: im looking for the Shaethen
	Lenda: Oh my—!
	Harn: Alright alright just—this isn’t your—
	Lenda: Did you say Shaethen, dear?
	Tom: yeah
	Harn: …
	Tom: im looking for my brother
	Tom: hes Talkian Greenfist
	Tom: hes fighting the Shaethen
	Harn: There ain’t no such thing.
	Lenda: Oh my—why—that’s dangerous!
	Lenda: Be quiet, Harn! You and your conspiracy theories.
	Harn: It ain’t no conspiracy.
	Tom: do you know where they are
	Lenda: Well why don’t you listen to the lad?
	Tom: plz
	Lenda: I’m afraid they don’t stick to one place . . .
	Harn: Just because he says don’t mean anything.
	Lenda: Harn . . . he’s right there.
	Harn: I don’t care where he is.
	Lenda: Oh don’t start . . .
	Harn: There ain’t no Shaethen.
	Lenda: Says who?
	While they talked, the sun has risen. Shadows veil the eastern hills, exposing patches of grass glittering with dew. Tom sets off, the couple still arguing behind him.
	Harn: When was the last raid?
	Lenda: Just last week, if you’ve been paying attention.
	Harn: Last week? Pah! Thats just a rumor.
	Harn: That’s*


	I close the game and reopen the WorldVerse website. Dad’s finished with the lawn and I can hear him coming in upstairs, slamming the door behind him. In the WorldVerse Wiki I search “Shaethen.”

Shaethen | The Dark Ones | Abu-Shadr |
Weedcrawlers | The Quassi
	The Shaethen are a mysterious race of creatures (alignment: chaotic evil) that perform raids on human settlements. Typically dwelling in woodland biomes, they are notoriously difficult to find, although witch hunters often seek

Witch Hunters | Abu-Kathar
	Witch hunting is a Level 20 profession that is available to all alignments. Novices train in fighting, woodsmanship, and lore. Adepts gain proficiency in either battle magic, mind magic, or navigation magic at a woods camp, instead of a traditional Arcane Academy

Woods Camp
	Woods camps are small settlements hidden in remote and often hard-to-access areas in woodland, taiga, and jungle biomes. Their locations are closely guarded secrets, known only to rangers and forest dwellers, often because they are prone to attacking and even killing outsiders. They function as secret meeting places for unorthodox groups such as cults, ranger networks, and witch hunter schools.

	On a sticky note on my desk, I write down: “woods camp: rangers + forest dwellers.” Then I return to WorldVerse.


	At the top of the hill Tom scans the landscape before him: the same river snaking between humpbacked hills, a solid line of trees to the east, overlapping mountains to the north. He sets out for the woods. Bird chirps grow louder, and the light dims, sheaves of sun projecting through openings in the canopy to spotlight the underbrush. A big spider, like an eight-ball with legs, sits in the center of a snowflake web. He pulls out his sword tries hitting it. It spasms, taking 4 damage, and falls to pieces. He goes on.
	Tom (shout): hello?
	No one hears you.
	He ventures deeper. The trees begin to thicken, bark like knotted muscle, roots lacing across the ground. The sound of birdcalls grows less frequent, only a distant caw every so often. Tree-shadows tangle with the roots until the whole earth seems like one sprawling net.
	Tom (shout): hello?
	No one hears you.
	*You have first-degree hunger! Stamina regeneration reduced by 75%! Eat to restore your hunger points.
	He looks around. Branches hanging menacingly low, the sun already plummeting. He draws his sword. A bird caws, then flies off, shivering a high bough of leaves.
	Tom (shout): hello?
	He goes further. By now it’s impossible to tell which way is back: there is only forward, trees and more trees. All of them look the same. Night is falling fast. Tiny shards of purple dusk wink at him through spaces in the canopy. Something rustles behind him. He whirls around, but it’s only the wind.
	Tom: who’s there?
	Total dark. He can’t see beyond a tree branch ahead of him, a trunk appearing out of the black.
	*You have first-degree cold! Strength reduced by 50%! Build a fire to restore your heat points.
	He whacks at a tree, trying to cut it.
	*This tree requires a Level 2 axe to fell!
	*You have second-degree hunger! Stamina regeneration reduced by 100%. Health regeneration reduced by 50%. Eat to restore your hunger points.
	Tom: i know someone’s there
	Tom: hello??
	The darkness reaches for him. He backtracks and runs into a tree. He whirls. Black all around. Then he sees it—a glimmer. A jagged light in the distance. He fumbles toward it. It grows larger, becoming a campfire.
	Tom: hello?
	Tom: whose fire is this?
	There’s nobody there. He steps into the light.
	*Warmth: 67%
	*Warmth: 74%
	*Warmth: 81%
	*Warmth: 89%
	*You have recovered from first-degree cold!
	A sound behind and he turns. A tree is standing there, or at least, some sapling twisted and warped into human shape. Its skin is barky and knotted, and it stands topheavy on two sharp, pointed feet, its eyes glowing a venomous green.
	Tom: hi
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: How dare you come here, human!
	*Qu’ess cast Numb! You take 15 damage! Movement speed reduced by 50%!
	Tom charges with his sword, swings, misses, swings and misses again. The thing rakes at his face and the world erupts in white. He staggers.
	*Qu’ess cast Leech! Stamina drained by 20%!
	*You have been stunned!
	Tom: ((please stop im looking for my brother))
	*Qu’ess cast Numb! You take 17 damage! Movement speed reduced by 75%!
	*You are in critical condition! Health regeneration reduced by 50%!
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: ((dude why don’t you roleplay))
	Tom tries to run but he moves at the speed of a crawling baby. The thing stamps on his back, hisses.
	Tom: ((omg fine))
	Tom: please! I just got lost! don’t hurt me!
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *pinches the human’s ears with a claw* Heh-heh-heh… my mother was killed by a human…
	Tom: ive never hurt any of you
	Tom: please
	Tom: ill give you everything i have
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: There’s nothing I want from you, putrid skinbag…
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: … except one thing.
	Tom: what
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: … To see you suffer!
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *laughs at the human, his breath smells like sour moss*
	He rises, drags Tom to his feet, and steers him deeper into the woods. Tom can see nothing. It takes him to a tree, where, between two outspread roots like petrified tentacles, a black hole gapes into the ground.
	They descend a curving wet stairway, lit dimly by warmthless green lamps. Spiderwebs plaster the ceiling, their hand-sized inhabitants busy wrapping unfortunate fireflies, or watching Tom pass below with glinting constellations of eyes. He steps in a puddle, and the splash echoes throughout dozens of invisible corridors and crannies, holes that trap sound the way the spiderwebs trap insects. Down and down they go, until they reach an uneven hallway that twists some distance into the earth as if cleared from the space where an ancient root used to reach. Inside, more green lamps light a winding row of cells.
	Myo-sath-vandi: Who’s that you have there?
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: Human meat.
	Tom: please let me go
	Tom: i am looking for my brother
	Tom: i can tell him not to hurt you
	Tom: he is a witch hunter but i can get him to stop
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *hisses*
	Myo-sath-vandi: A witch hunter, eh?
	Svan-qua-lan-las: Shut up! I hate those words!
	Myo-sath-vandi: I don’t trust this one…
	Pas-vyon-dek: I don’t trust any humans.
	More Shaethen emerge from side-tunnels, congregating around them.
	Tom: please let me go
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: Silence! You belong to us now.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *grabs the human by his hair*
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: Open the cell.
	One of the Shaethen unbolts a rusting cell door.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *throws the human inside*
	The Shaethen enter, one by one. There is a rectangular stone block in the center of the cell and a single green lamp hanging over it.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *forces the human onto the table*
	Tom: please stop
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: Oh… we haven’t even started.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *pinches the human’s cheek with a claw*
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *pulls sharply down, peeling off the skin*
	Tom: i just want to find my brother
	Myo-sath-vandi: It isn’t screaming. Maybe it needs more.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *chuckles and grabs the other cheek, begins to peel.*
	Tom: ((hey guys im serious))
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *grabs a clawful of dirt and holds it over the human’s skinless face, beginning to sprinkle.*
	Tom: ((omg wtf is wrong with you))
	Tom: ((please im just trying to find him))
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: ((why are you even here if you don’t want to roleplay))
	Svan-qua-lan-las: ((this is why no one wants to play this game anymore))
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *rubs the dirt onto the human’s cheeks*
	Tom: ((guys this is really fucked up))
	Tom: ((i don’t even want to play this game im just looking for my brother))
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: ((omg just shut up))
	Svan-qua-lan-las: ((just talk to him irl lol))
	Myo-sath-vandi: ((this is not even fun anymore…))
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: ((how about I kill him now))
	Tom: ((wait no))
	Svan-qua-lan-las: ((yeah))
	Myo-sath-vandi: ((agreed))
	Tom: ((plz stop))
	Pas-vyon-dek: ((good riddance))
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: *draws a claw across the human’s cheek*
	Just then a Shaethen appears at the door.
	Bal-vas-daquar: My friends… pardon me to interrupt your pleasure… it seems there is an issue.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: An issue?
	Myo-sath-vandi: Can it wait?
	Valadar (shout): To me! Drive back the monsters!
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: Damn it! They’re here!
	The Shaethen scurry out of the cell, bolt it behind them.
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar: Don’t think I’m done with you, human!
	Tom sighs, closing his eyes. Even through his lids, the lamp glows painfully bright, like the severed sac of an oversized firefly. He stands and investigates the cell, grabs, pulls. It rattles but won’t open.
	Bran Morden: I’ve tried.
	He looks up. Across from him, in the cell opposite, a man in rags sits against the far wall.
	Bran Morden: Good to see another human face around here.
	Tom: who are you?
	Bran Morden: Nobody.
	Tom: did they kidnap you too?
	Bran Morden: What else?
	Tom: idk
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar (shout): There are too many of them!
	Valadar (shout): Charge!
	Simon P. (shout): Ahh!
	Jeffrin (shout): Into the lair!
	Bran Morden: I was wondering when they’d come…
	Tom: who are they?
	Bran Morden: You do ask a lot of questions.
	Tom: well
	Tom: im looking for someone
	Bran Morden: Oh?
	Tom: Talkian Greenfist
	Tom: i know him
	Tom: hes my brother
	Bran Morden: hum.
	Tom: what?
	Bran Morden: Never mind.
	Tom: plz tell me
	Tom: *pleads on his knees*
	Tom: this is very important
	Bran Morden: You came all the way out here just for that?
	Tom: ya
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar (shout): To the stronghold! Retreat!
	Valadar (shout): Raaaa!
	Jeffrin (shout): For justice!
	Qu’ess-las-ath-Onar (shout): Damn the humans! Damn them all!
	Tom: wow
	Tom: how did they beat the Shaethen
	Bran Morden: Valor.
	Tom: wow
	Tom: where did they come from?
	Valadar (shout): Good man! Where do they keep you?
	Bran Morden (shout): Here! In a branch of the main staircase!
	Bran Morden: I can’t answer all of your questions. I’m sorry.
	Tom: youre a ranger aren’t you
	Bran Morden: I’m a friend. That’s all.
	Tom: if you’re a friend youd tell me who you are.
	Bran Morden: Alright. My name is Bran. Is that fair?
	Tom: nice to meet you im tom
	Bran Morden: Uh huh.
	A figure appears at the hallway entrance.
	Valadar: Bran? Is that you?
	Bran Morden: Aye.
	Valadar: Good God.
	Bran Morden: A little shaken, huh?
	Valadar: This place is evil.
	Bran Morden: *laughs*
	Valadar: Who’s this?
	Tom: hi
	Tom: do you know Talkian Greenfist?
	Valadar: What?
	Valadar: How do you know of the Gathering?
	Bran Morden: Umm… he doesn’t.
	Valadar: Oh.
	Valadar: Oops.
	Tom: wait what’s the gathering
	You hear Valadar whispering to Bran Morden.
	You hear Bran Morden whispering to Valadar.
	You hear Valadar whispering to Bran Morden.
	Bran Morden: Alright then.
	Valadar: Where’s your sword?
	Bran Morden: They took it. No use now. Probably at the bottom of a cave.
	Valadar: Damn.	
	Bran Morden: Aye.
	The rescuer draws a steel sword polished so clearly that the green light turns to milk on its surface, glinting and swirling as he raises it. He strikes the lock on the door and it falls apart.
	Bran Morden: Thanks.
	He looks at Tom.
	Bran Morden: Sorry friend. Can’t let our secret get out. I’ll see you in the next life.
	Tom: what
	Tom: …
	They begin to leave.
	Tom: wait!
	Tom: hey please wait
	Tom: don’t just leave me in here
	Tom: please im looking for my brother for real
	Tom: ((actually though im looking for him like irl))
	No one hears you. Type /s to shout.


	I pound the desk. “Damn it!”
	It’s nearly midnight, and I don’t even remember hearing my dad sigh his way upstairs, or my mom coming back down to turn off the lights and check everything one last time, as if someone might have stolen the living room while she was brushing her teeth. But for all that, my character’s stuck in some prison cell under a tree with a bunch of barky, sadistic hags. What even happens if you die in this game? There are no checkpoints to respawn at, and from the way it looks, nobody’s going to expect you to be walking around after they just saw you get chopped into pieces. Maybe if I found Jimmy, the surest way to get him off this game would be to just murder him. But then again, from recent experience, he’d probably whoop me in ten seconds. I have my character draw his sword, take a few practice swings.
	Then an idea hits me.
	If the other guys could break the lock with a sword, why can’t I . . . ?
	I take a swing at the lock, and sure enough, it clatters apart. I laugh, almost giddy, running my character out of the cell, up the stairs, into the woods. I look around. It’s all dark, but somewhere to the right, two small white nametags are bobbing away.
	Is it really this easy? I follow the nametags, thanking whichever programmer was stupid enough to leave that in the game.
	Upstairs, I hear someone open a door, walk around, close it. The game doesn’t feel real anymore. After a while the nametags stop moving, and I see other nametags, floating like x-ray signatures in the dark. VALADAR, BRAN the first two read. They move further in, closer to the others. I move my character out from behind a tree and there it is. A clearing, stars glittering above, a few fires burning silently, casting an orange glow on a series of cabins. Valadar and Bran go into one of the cabins and there’s a lot of movement inside, nametags bouncing and flitting to and fro. Upstairs a door opens again, but I hardly notice because far from the welcome home party, a lone nametag floats motionless within a cabin.
	TALKIAN, it reads.
	I practically sprint my character over. The cabin has no windows and no back door, so the only way to get in is to go around, to the unlit dirt street out front, up the porch. A clomping sound effect alerts Jimmy to my presence.
	Talkian Greenfist: Eh? Who is it?
	Tom: hi
	Talkian Greenfist: ((hold on brb))
	I sit uncomfortably, wondering if I should just walk in, but I figure that’d be bad roleplaying behavior, so I wait. After a while I hear mom’s voice. “. . . your bedtime, Jimmy,” she says, very pleasantly. “Isn’t it time to sleep?”
	Mom says this almost every night, despite the fact that Jimmy has not had a bedtime since elementary school, which was like more than five years ago. She says it in that same tone of voice that she uses when she tells me that Jimmy ought to go to homecoming—as if Jimmy going to homecoming is perfectly reasonable, the way it is for any other normal teenager, as if it hasn’t been two years since he last felt sunshine. When Jimmy doesn’t respond, she acts surprised, like she doesn’t get it. “Hey!” she says. “Jimmy, I’m talking to you!” Then she just sighs, and by the silence I can tell she’s standing in front of the door, still waiting for Jimmy, still waiting, until finally her footsteps track her back into her room.
	Talkian Greenfist: ((back))
	Talkian Greenfist: ((hey srry about that))
	Tom: ((np))
	Talkian Greenfist: who are you? I don’t recognize your voice.
	this is tommy, I’m about to type, but I don’t hit enter. I get the feeling that as soon as I tell him some unnamed contract will be broken, some unspoken trust, and there won’t ever be any going back. Why rush?
	Tom: a traveler.
	Talkian Greenfist: Don’t act mysterious to me. One shout and the whole camp will be here.
	Tom: you don’t want to do that.
	Talkian Greenfist: And why not?
	Tom: im just here to talk.
	The door opens. Talkian Greenfist is a darkly mustached man in a green hooded robe. He’s holding a dagger with a ruby glowing in the pommel, his videogame-graphic eyes fixed straight ahead.
	Talkian Greenfist: How did you find this place?
	Tom: i tracked a ranger
	Talkian Greenfist: Tracked a ranger? Impossible.
	Tom: believe it or not
	Bran Morden: What are you doing here?
	Oh, shit.
	I spin my character around. That Bran guy is standing behind me, a pixilated sword in his hands.
	Talkian Greenfist: He says he tracked you here.
	Bran Morden: There’s no way . . .
	Bran Morden: ((How did a level 1 noob track a level 33 ranger??))
	Talkian Greenfist: ((lol meta?))
	Bran Morden: ((He was locked in the Shaethen cell too…))
	Tom: ((i got out))
	Talkian Greenfist: ((whatever just go with it))
	Bran Morden: ((you could get banned for that you know..))
	Talkian Greenfist: ((hes new))
	Bran Morden: ((I know that’s why he should be banned))
	Bran Morden: ((we don’t need more noobs screwing up the game))
	Talkian Greenfist: ((look either he’ll leave or he’ll learn and then he won’t be a noob anymore))
	Talkian Greenfist: I was as amazed. He must be a woodsman of fine talent.
	Bran Morden: ((god this is bull))
	Bran Morden: Alright, lad. You’ve proven me wrong.
	Tom: i wont tell anyone your secret
	Bran Morden: Of course you won’t. You’re not leaving.
	Tom: what?
	Talkian Greenfist: Gathering policy. If someone finds us, they have two options: join us or die.
	Tom: oh
	Tom: umm
	Tom: ill stay I guess
	Talkian Greenfist: Show him to the new plots, Bran.
	Bran Morden: *grunts*
	He starts going off into the dark and I’m forced to follow. Time to stop waiting. I private message Jimmy:
	To Talkian: ((hey this is tommy))
	He doesn’t reply and I’m scared he’s left. But when I look back I still see him, standing motionless on the porch.
	Bran Morden: Here.
	He’s stopped at a random patch of dark. It’s flat and I can barely make out blades of grass bristling up to ankle-height.
	From Talkian: ((wtf?))
	To Talkian: ((hey dude can you plz go to homecoming))
	To Talkian: ((mom said i cant go unless you do))
	Bran Morden: Do you have an axe?
	Tom: no
	From Talkian: ((did you come here just to tell me that?))
	Bran Morden: Here.
	He tosses an axe at my feet and it appears in my inventory.
	To Talkian: ((yeah))
	To Talkian: ((dude plz this game will be here when u get back))
	To Talkian: ((i told Rachel i’d go with her))
	From Talkian: ((who the f is Rachel))
	To Talkian: ((this girl))
	Bran Morden: Cut as you’d like from the west glade.
	To Talkian: ((i only have one chance plz))
	From Talkian: ((tom))
	To Talkian: ((yeah?))
	From Talkian: ((you are such a retard))
	Bran Morden starts to talk away.
	Bran Morden: And watch yourself, lad. I don’t trust you.
	To Talkian: ((ok im a retard but will you go to hc))
	He doesn’t reply. I stand in the dark clearing, alone, watching the first light of dawn slowly melt shapes out of the darkness, and sit under the stairs in the basement in a house where it is two o’clock in the morning and a door has just opened and footsteps are storming from one stronghold to another, where a man’s voice is shouting: “Jimmy! Get your ass to bed right now!” but of all these things I am only half-aware, no, one-quarter aware. Everything’s happening and I’m typing, ((jimmy, please??)), even as I know that Jimmy is telling my father to go away, standing motionless on a porch by himself with his videogame-graphic eyes staring straight ahead at nothing.
	“Jimmy!” my dad screams, slamming his palm again and again into Jimmy’s door, so that it sounds like a judge is cracking his gavel over a courtroom that reaches from the bottom of these stairs to the molded corners of the attic. “Jimmy you will open this door now!”
	“Dad!” Jimmy yells. “What the hell! Leave!”
	“Do you hear that?” my dad says. My mom is muttering something. “That is my son,” my dad says. “That is my God damn son.”
	And then they’re not saying anything, because it’s morning in the clearing, and the birds are chirping, and two squirrels chase each other up a tree, and the dew gleams on the grass like a thousand grains of diamond sand. It’s freshly cold, and the sun is beginning to pool at my feet. As it fills the clearing I chop one tree, then another, drag each log to my plot, the bark crumbly and wet beneath my fingers. When I have what I need, I start to build a home.
