Foxes
       	Sundays we hunted fox. The sky was dim and the horizon rusting by the time we returned to the cabin, and every time Brother said, “The wards, Heneii,” even though we both wanted to sleep. In the cool stripped dusk of fall or the summer’s watercolor sundown I’d come outside and he’d come outside with me and we took our blood and together we refreshed the Glyph of Protecting on the doorframe.
       	When I was much younger he told me the ghosts of the foxes would rise and come snuffling at the door if the wards weren’t there, and when I grew older, old enough to understand the Sacramony, he told me what would really happen.
       	My youngest memory is of a white stallion facing me from a distant ridge, atop it a hooded figure. I couldn’t see the face but I knew it was looking at me. Seeing me. When I still had nightly terrors I would dream of that figure, drifting straight forward into the cabin and then turning slowly toward me, Brother never there. This was much more frightening than any ghost and it was real. That was why, Brother said, we hunted fox. To practice. So that when the Sacramony came after us, we’d be ready.
       	We bartered for bread in the open markets and trapped small game, but after each fox kill, Brother would never let us go near it. Not even for the meat. Why? I’d always ask. Such a waste. But he would never say anything.


       	It rains. Droplets dribble down the filter of leaves and pummel a weak rhythm. Bare branches lean in the rain-wind, soaked to black. Leaves and twigs carpeting the woods blink and flinch with each pattering drop. When the storm’s raged itself dry, the cotton clouds pull apart leaving a fraying of wisps that hang in the cold blue sky. Sunlight happens, brightening everything at once. The woods hold still and dew droplets gleam with rainbow-prism light.
	Patience, Brother taught me, that’s the art of hunting. On the right hand a Glyph of Serenity. On the left a Glyph of Perception. From the bend in the road I see a glimmer of white and clattering horses and robes. Three of them, rapiers slapping their thighs as they shudder up and down on their steeds.
	Even now I can imagine the plan. Brother, who might have been born to a bear, with his stones; me with my bow. He’d throw one with a Glyph of Silencing scrawled on it and knock out the leading Sacramonist and even as he threw I would shoot down a second. The last would hear nothing. You wouldn’t think it but without sound someone caught off guard is completely disoriented. He would stand there wildly swiveling while I drew and fired.
	But Brother isn’t here, like I’ve had a hand lopped off.
	I fire randomly at one of them. The other two hear me perfectly. I see lips moving and one of them dismounts and kneels and grips something dangling from his neck. I panic and undershoot, hitting him closer to the stomach. He crumples. I’m drawing a third arrow when the screeching starts.
	The last one, swaying on his horse, has his Sacrament gripped in his whitened knuckles and I see his pale-mint eyes boring holes through my soul.
	It’s a screech whittled sharp like a needle designed to pierce through one ear and out the other, drawing a bloody dribble. I howl, my fingers fumbling for the arrow which I dislodge from the string bringing the rough cut tip against my palm and I jerk from the pain and it goes in too deep and my hand is wet and red and trembling. Glyph of Silencing. I can hold two Glyphs at max but Serenity’s already wiped out by the blood on my right palm, giving me room for just one more. I draw it on the tree next to me. At this point I already feel a line of fluid inching down my neck, chilled in the tentative breeze. The Sacramonist moves fast, hopping onto his horse but instead of retreating he drives it at me. I try to grab the arrow but my right hand is cramped and won’t work right so I flee like a rabbit into the trees, leaving the bow behind. His horse is no match for me. I outrun him but when I stop to check for pursuit I can’t see him and I can’t see anything familiar. Only steep hills and trees upright their leaves lit gold by a weary sun. I hide beneath the overhanging roots of a tree, covering myself with leaves and shivering, shivering, double over onto my bleeding hand.
	“Careful, Heneii,” Brother once told me, after I’d climbed a tree and fell when a dead branch snapped beneath my foot. “You have Glyphs that will protect you, but none that will ever heal you.”


	I’ve been to a church only once and that time they nearly burned it down trying to drive me out. It was before Brother went off and I was only curious. When I went in it was empty, tall stained glass filtering dusty light onto the creaking pews, perfectly still.
	“Do you need something?” the head Sacramonist said behind me.
	I turned and he must have seen my eyes. They were nothing like Brother’s at the time—his were deep and red, like cherries, and mine were closer to pink, as if I’d been up all night reading. But he headed the Sacramony and he’d never seen me here before and it was a small town and he wasn’t stupid. Before I could break through a window and run, men were streaming into the place, backlighting each other with their torches.
	That night I woke up to piss and came outside to find Brother standing there, hands at his sides, staring at the distant peaks.
	“Brother?” I said.
	He was shaking. When he turned his eyes glowed like coals.


	I was never afraid of the white robe. What scared me most was that in my nightmares, Brother was gone. I assume I stopped having them when I stopped needing him.
	I’m not a child anymore, lying paralyzed in bed. I’m a hunter.
	A Glyph of Silencing. A Glyph of Blood Humming.
	I ghost through the forest, adrenaline permanently igniting every muscle of my body. The sky glows faded blue but the earth is black with shadows. I exist in a state of limbo, a man frozen in the moment after he jumps off a ledge, knowing only that he’s terrified and alive and clueless. I’ve never hunted without my bow before. I’ve never seen a fox up close. The forest rattling with long nostalgic sighs, I lock sight on a sheet of white as I crest a hill, and I leap for the kill.
	The moment I touch it, something barrels into me from the side, and a white coldness explodes in my shoulder.
	I fall. The Sacramonist rolls onto me, panther-like in dark russet camouflages. His empty robe flaps from a limb above us. He forces down another knife towards my chest but I kick him in the stomach so hard that he’s momentarily airborn before keeling over backwards. I leap onto him, grab the wrist of his knife hand while he’s thrashing it trying to get me off. I twist, hard, forcing open his grip. The sudden motion makes the knife tumble off somewhere. He punches me in the stomach. I take the hit and with my free hand bash him in the nose repeatedly then rip the knife out from my shoulder and ram it toward his chest but he grabs it but I press down with all my weight and his arms snap and the knife sluices into his chest and he chokes and I stab and stab and stab. When I’m done I lean over him, my arms on either side of his heads, panting.


	Eventually Brother left. “You’ll understand someday, Heneii,” he said. “You’ll go too.”
	And when I asked him, “Where are you going?”, he said: “Where I belong.”
	But I thought you belonged here. Which I didn’t say.
	I don’t remember the day he left. I remember days before that, evenings by the sizzling yellow light of the lamp, stringing my bow Sunday mornings while he gathered his stones—days even before the cabin, huddling in caves while it rained outside, and once me standing there, the water dripping coldly around me, Brother saying: it’s okay, Heneii, it’s okay—I remember tacky bread in the mornings, and bathing in the creek, and him finding me shivering by the roadside the winter of my father’s death and my banishment.
	The redder his eyes became, the less he talked and the more he stared unmoving at random things.
	Someday, Heneii. You’ll go too.
	It’s a rite of passage. The Sacramony hunts us because they know what we may become if we live long enough. They are terrified of the Transformed colonies in the mountains. Why, then, do they drive us away?


	The Sacramonist is just an ordinary dead man. I stand over him, blood veiling the earth beneath my feet, blood running, watery, down my shoulder and across my arm.  His eyes are wide open like a marble and in those marbles I see myself, a warped, orbed image, a backlit shade. The only thing that’s clear are my eyes. At once bright orange like a hearth fire and deep earthy amber, they shine like a fox’s.

