Descendants
	After Grandad ____ we have a family meeting to decide who should tell Allie. Actually, it is not really a family meeting, not until mom sees me lurking toward the fridge and says, “Hey, Taz, come join the family meeting,” where it is promptly decided that I should be the one to do it.
	“I think,” dad says, squishing his chin with his palm, “that if Allie hears it from someone in her own generation . . .” and trails off meaningfully, rising to excuse himself.
	“Yes,” mom says, nodding very agreeably. “I think this is the right choice.”
	“But you—”
	“Hun,” dad says, as if the matter is settled and they have moved on, “did you take out the trash?”
	“Oops,” mom says. And so the matter is settled and they move on.


	The thing about my Grandad is that he was an alien. Mom doesn’t like the a word, but you can’t really pretend like it isn’t true. His head was as long as a horse’s muzzle and if he fell asleep when you visited you could find all sorts of gadgets and gizmos hidden in the cupboard, stuck between pages of unfriendly novels, hastily stuffed under his blankets. He gave Allie and me atomically synced watches one Christmas, decorated with little green bulbous-headed Martians grinning from their flying saucers. (Aliens are not actually green, by the way, nor do they own flying saucers.) When we opened the gifts, mom and dad were quiet, giving each other the grownup-look. They never said anything aloud, but Grandad stopped giving us alien-themed gifts, or any gifts at all, after that.
	It could be a little awkward telling people this at parties, and the City Council was not very happy to hear it, but it’s something you learn to live with, like having a bad hip or not being blond. Grandad lived in a cabin on some old farm that technically wasn’t supposed to be inhabited anymore, and I drove Allie to visit him every Sunday. He and Allie were real close. When Allie was born, her head was on the long side, even got caught in mom’s you-know-where for hours until the doctor did a C-section. Afterwards, he said he couldn’t find anything wrong with her. Perfectly normal, he said, shaking his head in a cathartic, nobody’s-perfect sort of way.
	

	I’m not much of a sugarcoater, so when the “family meeting” is over, I go up to Allie’s room, where she’s turned up some Disney Princess song very loudly so mom won’t hear her soundtracking the orbits of her solar system playset. I decide on what I’ll say: I decide:
	. . .
	What am I supposed to say?
	I stand there for maybe ten minutes, listening to Allie go: “Vvvshhhhhh!” as Jupiter races Saturn around the sun. “Uh oh!” she says. “Saturn is reducing the eccentricity of its orbit!” There’s a flat collision of plastic. “What’s this? A stray asteroid? Vvvvssssshhhhhpooooooo . . .”
	I knock.
	“What!” she says.
	“Allie?”
	She scrambles to the door, opens it on her knees. Behind her, the plastic blue ball that is Neptune sits on her carpet among other intricately ordered planets.
	“I, uhh,” I say, but only white space leaves my mouth.
	“You what?” Allie says.
	“I wanted to let you know that . . . uhh, mom’s coming up soon, so you might want to put that away.”
	She huffs. “Thanks.” Then she closes the door in my face and through the theme song of The Beauty and the Beast I hear her going, “Vvvvsshh! Vvvvsshhhpooo! Foul play! Jupiter knocks another moon out of orbit!”


	Whatever genetic peculiarity gave Allie some of Grandad’s head, it never applied to me. As a result, Grandad was always closer to Allie, treating me at times with the respect you’d give a stranger and at other times with the watchfulness of a deer. It was a while since he started really talking to me, which usually meant a few sentences when I dropped Allie off and a few more when I picked her up. He moved with an anteater’s deliberation, always had his papyrus hands around a black-colored tea. For an alien, he was surprisingly human. He was fascinated by the work of Tolkien and Caroll, the concept of yogurt, and country music. His head was twice as long as it was wide, gray and white-whiskered, with ears like fungus that always seemed curled and drooping in a different configuration. Sometimes he would ask me very strange questions I didn’t know how to answer. “What is the fastest way to optimize a one-million parameter function?” he demanded one day when I knocked on the door, Allie in hand. Or, “How many species of bacteria live in the human body?” Or, “What is poetry?” Other times, he asked questions like any guy would—did you see the Packers game, do you have a girlfriend yet, did you hear about what Politician X said in Y café when he thought nobody was listening. He’s collecting data, he says. He’s here to watch us. Watch us for what? I always wondered, but when I asked, all he said was, “In case something happens.” He never told me what that meant.


	On Tuesday Grandad ____. On Thursday, dad did the shoveling. Before tomorrow, Sunday, I was supposed to tell Allie. I haven’t told Allie. Allie knocks on my door after supper.
	 “Taaazzie,” she says.
	I’m lying on my bed, counting the stains on my ceiling.
	“I’m tired,” I say. “I can’t take you today.”
	“Taz!” she says, and I know she’s pouting, her arms crossed in a micro-imitation of mom. She tries to open the door, but I’ve locked it. She stamps off, but soon she’s back. She fiddles with the door for a moment, then pops open the lock and stomps in, a mangled paperclip in her hand.
	“Taz, you have to!” she says, shaking me.
	“No, I don’t. Grandad isn’t well today. He doesn’t want to see you.”
	“Nu uh,” she says. “Grandad wouldn’t do that.”
	“He doesn’t choose to get sick.”
	“If you don’t get up right now,” she says, “I’m going to have a fit.”
	When Allie has a fit, it usually means I spend the next three hours cleaning up. She goes ham on the thing, and sometimes for no real reason either. Last week mom was watering her plants when all a sudden Allie started screaming, knocking over the pots, grabbing handfuls of soil and throwing them across the kitchen like a rampaging pepper shaker. “Allie!” mom kept saying, setting her shoulders in firm resolve, “You pick that up right now!” but Allie just grabbed more handfuls, her nails globbed with dark earth, pelting the refrigerator, smearing the peeling Post-its on the counter, screaming, “stupid, stupid, stupid!”
	“Fine,” I tell her. “Have a fit.”
	“Mommy!” she starts to wail. “Mommy! Mommy!”
	Mom sticks her head in the room. “What now?” she says, glancing at me. “Taz, what’d you do?”
	“Tazzie won’t take me to Grandad’s,” Allie says.
	Mom blinks, looks at Allie, looks at me.
	“Taz?” she says. “Didn’t you tell . . . ?”
	“Mom,” I say. “I can’t—”
	“Taz will take you,” she says. “Right, Taz?”
	My mom has a wry sense of justice.
	“Yes,” I tell her.
	Her lips self-satisfactorily set, she closes the door.


	Mom never liked Grandad, not as a person and especially not as an alien. In fact, she thinks the whole thing was a farce. She’s the reason why Allie’s first solar system playset mysteriously disappeared one day. (I’m the reason it mysteriously came back.) When Grandad visited for a family reunion or a dinner party, she would set aside a special seat for him in the living room, where he was safely quarantined watching The Simpsons and the five o’clock news while we ate and talked about human things. Dad used to spend Friday nights with his telescope, charting the night sky, but that didn’t last long, and now his telescope is probably sitting at the bottom of some donation box. Dad will try to play along, pretending like the alien days never happened, which is totally stupid, because when I was Allie’s age I remember the way he used to come into my room after bedtime, smelling funny and hardly hearing me, taking out my copy of The Universe: For Kids! and furiously leafing through until he found a diagram of Alpha Centauri. “This is where your Grandad’s from, Taz,” he would say, pointing to one white dot among a whole scatterplot of them. His breath in my face smelled sweetly sour and it made my head throb. “This is where Grandad is from and where half of Daddy is from and where one quarter of you are from.” I would moan that I was sleeping and tell him to go away but he would insist. “This is Sirius B,” he would say. “Don’t you ever forget what that means. Sirius B. Don’t you ever forget where you came from.” And he would disappear, quietly shutting the door behind him, leaving me lying in the dark, thinking, serious be, serious be, already forgetting what that meant. Nowadays, if I tell dad an alien joke, he’ll say, haha, son, that’s funny, because we all know that aliens aren’t real, and go back to watching football reruns.


	I take Allie in the truck. She sits shotgun, her skirt wrinkled, the seat belt almost covering her mouth. Technically, she’s not supposed to do that, but there’s nobody around here who will call us out on it anyway, and she insists. She says she likes the view. She peers over the lip of the window, watching clay-swathed hills scroll past, the horizon a dark tree line. Against the blushing light of dusk, her head seems more oblong than ever.
	“We’re learning about quasars,” she tells me. Allie’s only in fourth grade, but thanks to Grandad, she knows as much about space as any high schooler, and probably much more. She starts talking about gamma rays and white dwarfs and things I’m pretty sure the English language doesn’t include, for which she and Grandad made up their own names. It strikes me now that, after all these years, there are still things I don’t understand about where Grandad came from. Did they have their own language? Why was he so human? He spent his whole life here studying us, but I barely know anything about him.
	Bare, muscular bluffs appear and disappear. Allie yawns. She closes her eyes. I entertain driving back while she’s out and telling her she slept through the visit, but Allie’s too smart for that. I can’t go to Grandad’s house because the idea of it freaks me out, so instead I drive for the yard, skipping the turn-off point to the cabin, the sun drop by drop leaking down the sky.
	When she opens her eyes, it’s almost dark. Unfamiliar contours of grass and trees sweep around us. “Where are we going?” she says.
	I don’t answer.
	“Tazzie?” she says. “Where are we?”
	“Almost there,” I say.
	“Almost where?”
	“To Grandad,” I tell her.
	She pouts. “This isn’t the way to Grandad’s.”
	I never really knew the guy, but I guess that makes sense, because he’s not even from the same planet as me. But that means I’m not really from here either. I wonder about this sometimes. Like, what if I had a head like Allie’s, then sure, I would be called squash-head or horse-face or whatever it is they call her, but I would’ve been able to talk with him like Allie did, learn about space, learn about Sirius B or wherever one-fourth of me comes from. Like maybe if I had asked to stick around for one of Allie’s visits he would have told me a little more. But then he woke up. He got out of bed. He was on his way to the refrigerator like any other morning when he _____________ and ______________________________________________________________________.

#

	By now we can see the yard, a mere lump in the distance, and its teeth, nubs silhouetted by a sky the purple of dying orchids. Many teeth, like the teeth of a gear, but uneven, uncared for. In need of a dentist.
	“Allie,” I tell her. “Grandad . . .”
	“Grandad what?”
	“He . . . you know how sometimes you’ll see—like, I don’t know—a squirrel on the side of the road?”
	“Yes . . . ?” she says. “They always try to run across right as you go.”
	“Yeah,” I say, “but sometimes they don’t quite run fast enough—”
	“Ok,” she says, “but why aren’t we going to Grandad’s?”
	The teeth come closer. We can see the fence, sagging, already collapsed in some places, the teeth blunt and crumbling.
	“Grandad is somewhere else now,” I say, and I feel like I’m talking through splintered toothpicks.
	Allie looks at me for a long time.
	We stop at the foot of the hill. Atop it, the yard sits with its many teeth and I look up at it like a beggar at some ghastly Acropolis. I step out of the car, but she doesn’t move.
	“Why are we stopping, Taz?”
	Then she sees the way I’m looking and one thing connects with another in her little alien head. Her mouth opens, and she’s silent for half a second before she shrieks. There are tissues flying everywhere, like a referee who can’t stop calling penalties. She’s hitting everything made of matter. I try to go back in but she slams the door shut, locks it cluck-cluck. I hear her muffled screaming from outside, see her ripping up first the tissues then the tissue box. She’s shrieking and she won’t stop. She slams her fists against the windows, kicks the radio. She stamps on the gas again and again but the keys are out and nothing happens. When I can’t watch any longer I turn around and start up the hill. My stomach feels like it’s got strangling ivy growing all around it. It’s a sleepy evening, clouds of midges hovering like perfect zeroes over the grass. I go up and up until I can see the teeth nice and close, some as tall as I am, most shorter than my knee. I’ve only been here once but I know the way. I step, step, step until I’m standing in front of Grandad. Grandad’s tooth is so short it doesn’t even have height. It’s nothing but a plaque embedded in the ground, surrounded by loose raw dirt from dad’s haphazard shovelwork. Maybe I’m imagining it but I can still hear Allie. I can hear her screaming. I close my eyes.
	“I did believe in you,” I tell him, but of course it’s too late now.
#

	By the time I come back, it’s pitch black and Allie is curled in the passenger seat. I try the door and it opens with a timid cluck.
	“Come on,” I tell her. “Let’s go back.” She doesn’t say anything.
	I slip into the driver’s seat and twist the keys. The car glows to life.
	But Allie takes the keys, pulls them out. “I don’t want to,” she says. “I want to go home.”
	I’m not sure what she’s talking about, until I see where she’s looking. Up. In some anonymous corner of the sky, the first star has appeared, dim and faded.
	“That’s not home,” I tell her.
	“Then where is?”
	I don’t know what to say to this, so I don’t say anything. Allie is slowly mummifying her hand in the hem of her skirt. I pull it away, warm and little and wet.
	“Can we stay here?” she whispers. “With Grandad?”
	If I do not take Allie home tonight, mom will have a panic attack. Oops, I think. I climb out, Allie watching me. I take two old blankets laying in the back of the truck, hang them from my arm. “Come on,” I say. She follows, hesitant at first, then trotting along, stumbling to keep up. I lay the blankets out on a field. It is dark enough that the hill and the teeth are only absences in the sky, spots where there is no light. We lay down, the earth stiff beneath us.
	“Ursa Major,” Allie murmurs, pointing one way, then another. “Orion . . . Cetus . . . Pisces . . . Taz?”
	“Yeah?”
	Even in the dark, I can feel her looking at me. “Is that home?” she says, her finger pointed straight to the sky.
	“You think so?” I ask, but she doesn’t say anything, and soon I hear her breathing steadily, her baby snores light and rasping. I lay on my back, alone, and watch a satellite plummet across the darkness.
	When I return home, I know what mom will do. She’ll pretend like Grandad didn’t exist, doesn’t exist, tell the neighbors, “boy, do my kids have an imagination!” I know dad will forget the names of the constellations, one by one. I know Allie will go to school and grow old and look in the mirror and learn how she is a freak. But for now, we are here. I am here. The satellite streaks by again, and I let myself think it is a comet. I wish, not even thinking: let this be enough. When I wake it will be well into morning, and dawn will have erased the stars.
	
