Blastoff
	My girlfriend’s going to Mars. She’s almost done with her spaceship, and after that, she says, it’s only a matter of fuel. She keeps it in her garage, a stout, shining cone, a little port window on the side like they have on planes, and inside I can see she’s decked it out, with a bean bag chair, a mini-fridge, a Playstation. She’s got more essential things, too, of course—an inflatable greenhouse, a spherical bulge she calls the Oxy-Master because it makes oxygen, plucking apart Mars’s gases like they’re Legos by some physio-chemical process I still don’t understand. She’s typed out her timetable on Excel and she’s blasting off tomorrow. “I’ll send back a postcard,” she says. “If I can get the trajectories right, I could land a pod within a few miles of here.” She tells me this from under her engine, her skirt streaked in grease, her legs layered one over the other. She peeks out at me, chewing on a bang.
	“Could you hand me that screwdriver?” she says.
	It’s a fun-sized, pink Phillip’s she got for her ninth birthday. She takes it and disappears under the engine.
	“There’s something tipsy with the combustion,” she says. “Let me see . . .” she clatters around for a while, humming to herself. It’s an old Taylor Swift song, and I only know it from those times she used to lock us in her room and force me to listen to pre-2008 albums. Her room, as I remember it—I haven’t been there in a while—is pinker than her screwdriver, padded with pillows and fuzzy rugs as if somebody was afraid she’d fall out of bed and break her neck, and the walls are covered in overlapping posters of obscure female country artists with names like Savannah and Montana. She doesn’t sleep there much, instead crashing on a sallow mattress covered in one big gray stain that she’s dragged out next to her spaceship, even though she’s steps away from her room. It’s because she works so late, she says. She doesn’t want to disturb things. I’m not sure what “disturb things” means and I don’t think I’m going to ask. Her house is a pretty quiet, candle-freshened place, blessed with a good Christian grandma who died last year, a brother who stomps around the kitchen, a mom she won’t talk about, and a dad who is too dumb to realize that his daughter’s “Science Fair Project” is taking her to a place where he’ll never see her again.


	There’s this window pinched between the upper wall and roof of her garage that’s so old it was probably built before they had locks. It grunts open when I shove my heel against it, just wide enough for me to squeeze through, trying not to scrabble my legs against the hairy old cobwebs hanging from the walls as I drop six straight feet onto her mattress. It squeaks a little, then sighs flat, until I can feel the cold ground digging into my knees.
	Maggie’s not here right now because the skies haven’t been this clear in weeks, and she’d rather bike her telescope up to Cedar Bluff to look for lights in the sky than sit around in this stinky garage. She wanted me to come with her, she planning to blast off before dawn and all, but when she stargazes, the Maggie in her leaves, and she gets this numb look like she’s seeing all the secrets of the world that aren’t there. It’s a little uncomfortable, I have to admit, and I get the feeling that she really would rather be alone.
	Besides, it was too good of an opportunity to pass up. See, her birthday’s next week, and I cleaned out my piggy bank buying her this necklace from Mo’s Jewelry. I’ve stocked my closet with balloons and pink streamers and even a few firecrackers I stole from Stephen, and when she comes over to “help me with my homework,” I’ll pop the surprise, present her with her gift, wrapped snugly in the Sunday comics. I’ll explain everything—why her steel orders kept disappearing from her porch, why the screws are always loose, why her tools go missing—and, from what she’s told me, she’ll have her first birthday party ever. I think she’ll understand.
	I point my flashlight at her spaceship. In the dark it looks almost scary, as if something landed it here and left it, instead of it being finished just this afternoon. I pick up her screwdriver from the upturned box she uses as a workbench and slide underneath. It’s seamless, cheery gray with painted red streaks. I run a hand under it until I feel a slight bump, and, holding the flashlight with my teeth, work the head of the screwdriver into it. It takes a few tries, but a panel breaks off from the bottom.
	It looks like plumbing inside. Sinewy pipes weave around each other, branching in all directions, and one large valve leads deep within to the spaceship’s dark, oiled heart. I feel my way there, knuckly fingers climbing along the valve until they run flat up against something thick and dense. I pull my hand back, grab the screwdriver, and reach in again. The Philip’s head clinks against some knot in the steel and I work it in. I feel, strangely, like a mechanic. I’m stained black up to the elbow and tinkering, shoulder weirdly bent, face up, tinkering. The screws loosen one by one. I’m tinkering. Another screw loosens. The combustion is tipsy, and it’s not getting better until I give her that necklace.


	I must have been too loud, because halfway through the third screw a drumroll of stomps cascades down a staircase, ending with a final stomp that sounds more like an ungraceful fall than a footstep, so hard that the whole house jolts. I barely have time to pull my hand out from the engine before the stomps get louder, closer. I scramble out from beneath the spaceship and throw myself inside just as the door opens. I can see Maggie’s brother through the window, silhouetted by kitchen lights behind him—his ears sticking out, his back hunched in bad posture. He looks one way, then the other. His nostrils are flared in perfectly circular openings.
	“Mom!” he yells.
	He shuts the door. “Mom!” I hear him yell. He’s stomping upstairs. I climb out of the spaceship and reach for the ledge of the window and only now realize that it’s about three feet higher than I am. I jump and claw for purchase but fall in a heap with a legful of old spiderweb. There’s no ladder in sight. I push the workbench under the window and step on it and grab the ledge but I can’t do a pull-up. The door opens.
	“—and it’s all—” Maggie’s brother is saying.
	Her mom sees me and stops dead.
	“—messed . . . up,” he says, and turns, and sees me, standing on Maggie’s workbench, still gripping the ledge with some fingers, covered in engine grease.
	“What the fuck?” he says.
	I step off the workbench. “I didn’t mean—”
	But before I can finish, the garage door starts to rumble open. Chains rattle, excruciatingly loud, and cut off. We stand there strangled. Maggie walks in, steering her bike, sees us, stops.
	“Hi?” she says.
	“Oh no,” her mom says. “Oh no no no. No no no no no no no.” She starts going in. Maggie calls after her, “Mom?” but a door slams somewhere. For a second we’re dead silent.
	Maggie’s brother looks at her, shakes his head, sighs, steps inside. “Do you have to—” he starts to say, then sighs again, stomps deeper into the house.
	“Mom,” he says.
	Maggie looks at me, then her spaceship, then me.
	“Wally?” she says.
	“You want to leave the house?” her mom is screaming from the bathroom. “Fine! Then leave the house!”
	“Mom!” her brother says. But there’s nothing but silence. The stomps tremble back and forth and finally recede.
	“Hi,” I say.
	She looks past me and suddenly she’s seeing that something. It’s like the hue changes in her pupils just a shade paler and they catch the light like chunks of quartz glinting from a gravel beach. Then it’s gone and she’s looking at me, at the grease all along my arm. I look at it too. It’s worse than I thought.
	“I can fix it,” I say, real quiet, and she bends down and picks up her screwdriver.
	“No,” she says, turning it over in her hand, then turning toward her spaceship. “You can’t.” And that’s all she says. She gathers her hair up, tucks it behind both ears, lays on her back, and begins to tinker.


	By morning she’s left the atmosphere. I see the smoke trail she leaves, a knotted pillar dangling from the sky like Jack’s beanstalk dissipating under the sun. I skip school and sit on my front lawn, watch a few cars roll past. Then I’m in my room, with her necklace drooping through my fingers. Her birthday party’s in a pile at my feet, balloon sacs, cone hats, confetti. I pick one of the balloons, a pink one, and take it outside, where the sky is so blue it’s hard to think there’s a space beyond. I blow it up, breath by breath, and knot it on the second try, and lay on my back as it cocks its head in the wind, tail fluttering, swimming up and up like a surfacing fish. It’s blue and a crumb of pink, strafing across the sky, a speck, a pixel. I blink in the sun’s glare and when I look again I can’t see it, only the blue, and I imagine the balloon climbing ever higher, brushing up against the limits of the atmosphere and pushing through, popping into orbit—and maybe, sitting in her spaceship, halfway to Mars, Maggie will look back one last time, see it, and know she belongs on Earth.



